--- Page 1 ---
SPH 6004: Advanced Statistical Learning – Assignment 1 (Individual Assessment 40%)  For this assignment, all students will be given a pre-extracted dataset from the newly released MIMIC-IV (Medical Information Mart for Intensive Care IV) version 3.1, a real- world Electronic Medical Record (EMR) dataset. The objective of this assignment is test whether the students can:  1) Develop and implement predictive model(s) on a static structure dataset. 2) Develop and implement feature selection methods to enhance prediction model(s).  3) Analyze and explain the differences in performance from different models.  Note: NUS takes plagiarism very seriously. A student should NOT copy from seniors’ assignments of previous years nor his/her own assignments of other courses.  Regarding the use of AI tools such as ChatGPT, Gemini, or their equivalents, students are ONLY permiTed to employ these tools as supporUve aids solely for the purpose of proofreading their ﬁnal reports. It is expressly prohibited for students to uUlize AI tools to generate project code or create content for their reports. In the event of any suspected violaUons, individual interviews with the students will be conducted, and if any fraudulent acUvity is evident, appropriate disciplinary acUons will be taken against the student involved. Both individual and group assignments will be based on the MIMIC-IV database. The MIMIC-IV database is a large, freely-available database comprising of de-identified health-related data of over forty thousand patients who stayed in critical care units at the Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center. The database includes information such as demographics, vital sign measurements made at the bedside (around 1 data point per hour), laboratory test results, procedures, medications, caregiver notes, imaging reports, and mortality (both in and out of hospital). For this assignment, you will work on an extracted dataset of patients’ snapshot of health status at admission that comprises  many features/variables.  You will develop a strategy to select the right combination of features to build a predictive model that estimates the patients’ chance to be discharged from the Intensive Care Unit (ICU). You will be assessed on the performance of the following tasks:  Individual Assessment (40% of the total marks)  1. Register for data access to MIMIC (2% of the total marks).  Deadline: 31st January 2026 Award up to 2% when student: 
--- Page 2 ---
- Successfully registers for data access Note: Indicate Dr. Feng as your supervisor for the application.  2. Propose and implement a strategy to select the right features for the predictive model (15% of the total marks). Note feature selection strategies that are not covered in lectures are allowed to be used with appropriate justification. Deadline: 6th March 2026 Award up to 15% when student:  -  Clearly explains the rationale of the proposed strategy (5%)  -  Clearly explains how the proposed strategy works (5%)  -  Demonstrate experimentally how the proposed strategy minimises the feature dimensions of the pre-extracted MIMIC data (5%)  All the above items need to be clearly explained in the written report in component 4.  3. With the selected features, implement the predictive models taught in first half of the course and compare their performances. (15% of total marks) Deadline: 6h March 2026  Award up to 15% when student:  - Implements all predictive models correctly (5%) - Evaluates and compares the performance of the models (5%)  - Clearly explains the better performance of some models (5%)  All relevant codes should be uploaded onto github.com. Further, include github URL in the written report as described below. 4. Summarise the results and findings from 2) and 3) in a written report of no more than 8 pages, and upload the report onto the Canvas Student Submission Folder through the Turnitin platform (8% of total marks)  Deadline: 6th March 2026  Award up to 8% when student:  -  Clearly presents and explains the problem statement (2%)  -  Clearly explains the proposed ideas and models used (2%)  -  Effectively summarises and clearly illustrates the key findings with appropriate use of graphics and tables (2%)  -  Compiles into a formal report (2%)  – If LLM is used, prompts to the LLM need to be documented in the appendix  
